Today we're going to learn quicksort. Like mergesort quicksort is a recursive algorithm. However, when you think of quicksort, I want you to think of the word pivot pivot is simply one of the items in the array that meets the following three conditions after we sorted it. First the pivot is in its correct position in the final sorted array. This means that all items to the left or smaller and all items to the right are larger. Let's look at an example. brass of sorts of following array Let's choose a pivot. Explain the best way to do this later, but for now, let's just choose 3. First we move the pivot to the end of the ray to get it out of her way. Next we're going to look for two items item from left, which is the first item starting from the left that is larger than our pivot. Second item from right which is the first item starting from the right. That is smaller than our pivot. Starting at 2 we can see that six is item from left? Not starting at the right we see that one is item from right? Let's swap item from left with item from right? Will you repeat the process this time 5 is item from left and 0 is item from right? Again, we swap the two. One more time this time we see that item from left has a greater index than item from right so we know we're done. We swap item from left with our pivot. 3r pivot is now in its correct spot to prove it. Let's review our three conditions. As you can see all items to the left are smaller and all items to the right or larger. We said quicksort is recursive. Let's go through the process one more time with a larger partition. We just made. Will chew seven as our pivot and move it to the end. I'll let you watch without voice over. Now we have three and seven in their correct positions. I think you understand the concept. So will that recursion handle the rest? What important question is how do we choose the pivot? This makes a large difference in the performance of the algorithm? As we want to choose a pivot that divides the rain half or is closest possible to even out the work. One popular method is called median of three. We look at the first middle and last elements of the array. We sort them properly and choose the middle item as our pivot. We're making the gas that the middle of these three items could be close to the median of the entire Ray and as you can see it's not too far off. Here's the pseudocode for quicksort. Quicksort has a worst-case time complexity of Big O of N squared but if a pivot is shows and properly it can be shown to have an average case they go and log in. Thank you for watching. Please like And subscribe if you enjoy the video.